Perf Hints docs and General Opt Guide refactoring (#10815)
openvinotoolkit/openvino: docs/OV_Runtime_UG/performance_hints.md

Notice that the `benchmark_app`, outputs the actual settings, for example:

<code>
$benchmark_app -hint tput -d CPU -m 'path to your favorite model'

...

[Step 8/11] Setting optimal runtime parameters

[ INFO ] Device: CPU

[ INFO ]   { PERFORMANCE_HINT , THROUGHPUT }

...

[ INFO ]   { OPTIMAL_NUMBER_OF_INFER_REQUESTS , 4 }

[ INFO ]   { NUM_STREAMS , 4 }

...
</code> 

## Using the Performance Hints: Basic API
In the example code-snippet below the  `ov::hint::PerformanceMode::THROUGHPUT` is specified for the `ov::hint::performance_mode` property for the compile_model:
@sphinxdirective

.. tab:: C++

    .. doxygensnippet:: docs/snippets/ov_auto_batching.cpp
       :language: cpp
       :fragment: [compile_model]

.. tab:: Python

    .. doxygensnippet:: docs/snippets/ov_auto_batching.py
       :language: python
       :fragment: [compile_model]

@endsphinxdirective

## Additional (Optional) Hints from the App
Let's take an example  of an application that processes 4 video streams.  The most future-proof way to communicate the limitation of the parallel slack is to equip the performance hint with the optional `ov::hint::num_requests` configuration key set to 4. 

> As discussed previosly, for the GPU this will limit the batch size, for the CPU - the number of inference streams, so each device uses the `ov::hint::num_requests` while converting the hint to the actual device configuration options:

Author: the num_request is applicable for latency (alos to have the same API regardless of the hint value). E.g. you may want to run 4 requests, and each in the latency mode.

# High-level Performance Hints {#openvino_docs_OV_UG_Performance_Hints}

Each of the OpenVINO's [supported devices](supported_plugins/Supported_Devices.md) offers low-level performance settings. Tweaking this detailed configuration requires deep architecture understanding.
Also, while the performance may be optimal for the specific combination of the device and the inferred model, the resulting configuration is not necessarily optimal for another device or model.
The OpenVINO performance hints are the new way to configure the performance with the _portability_ in mind. 

> The hints also "reverse" the direction of the configuration in the right fashion: rather than map the application needs to the low-level performance settings, and keep an associated application logic to configure each possible device separately, the idea is to express a target scenario with a single config key and let the *device* to configure itself in response.
> As the hints are supported by every OpenVINO device, this is completely portable and future-proof solution. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The hints also "reverse" the direction of the configuration in the right fashion: rather than map the application needs to the low-level performance settings, and keep an associated application logic to configure each possible device separately, the idea is to express a target scenario with a single config key and let the *device* to configure itself in response.
As the hints are supported by every OpenVINO device, this is a completely portable and future-proof solution. 
```

> Previously, certain level of automatic configuration was coming from the _default_ values of the parameters. For example, number of the CPU streams was deduced from the number of CPU cores, when the `ov::streams::AUTO` (`CPU_THROUGHPUT_AUTO` in the pre-OpenVINO 2.0 parlance) is set. However, the resulting number of streams didn't account for actual compute requirements of the model to be inferred.
> The hints, in contrast, respect the actual model, so the parameters for the optimal throughput are calculated for each model individually (based on it's compute versus memory bandwidth requirements and capabilities of the device).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Previously, a certain level of automatic configuration was coming from the _default_ values of the parameters. For example, a number of the CPU streams was deduced from the number of CPU cores, when the `ov::streams::AUTO` (`CPU_THROUGHPUT_AUTO` in the pre-OpenVINO 2.0 parlance) is set. However, the resulting number of streams didn't account for the actual compute requirements of the model to be inferred.
The hints, in contrast, respect the actual model, so the parameters for the optimal throughput are calculated for each model individually (based on its compute versus memory bandwidth requirements and capabilities of the device).
```

## Performance Hints: Latency and Throughput
As discussed in the [Optimization Guide](../optimization_guide/dldt_optimization_guide.md) there are few different metrics associated with the inference speed.
Throughput and latency are some of the most critical factors that influence the overall performance of an application.

> This is why, to ease the configuration of the device, the OpenVINO already offers two dedicated hints, namely `ov::hint::PerformanceMode::THROUGHPUT` and `ov::hint::PerformanceMode::LATENCY`.
> Every OpenVINO device supports these, which makes the things portable and future-proof.
> The also allows to do a performance configuration that is fully compatible with the [automatic device selection](./auto_device_selection.md).
> A special `ov::hint::PerformanceMode::UNDEFINED` acts same just as specifying no hint.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To ease the configuration of the device, the OpenVINO offers two dedicated hints: `ov::hint::PerformanceMode::THROUGHPUT` and `ov::hint::PerformanceMode::LATENCY`.
Every OpenVINO device supports these hints, which makes it portable and future-proof.
The also allows getting a performance configuration that is fully compatible with the [automatic device selection](./auto_device_selection.md).
A special `ov::hint::PerformanceMode::UNDEFINED` acts the same as specifying no hint.
```

> Please also see the last section in the document on conducting the performance measurements with the `benchmark_app`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 See the last section in the document on conducting the performance measurements with the `benchmark_app` to learn more.
```

Notice that if there are other performance factors (other than inference time) like memory footprint and model load/compilation time are of concern, a typical model may take significantly more time to load with `ov::hint::PerformanceMode::THROUGHPUT` and then consume  much more memory, compared to the `ov::hint::PerformanceMode::LATENCY`.  

## Performance Hints: How It Works?
Internally, every device "translates" the value of the hint to the actual performance settings.
For example the `ov::hint::PerformanceMode::THROUGHPUT` selects number of CPU or GPU streams.

> For the GPU, additionally the optimal batch size is selected and the [automatic batching](../OV_Runtime_UG/automatic_batching.md) is applied whenever possible (and also [when the device supports that](./supported_plugins/Device_Plugins.md#features-support-matrix)).

Reviewer 2: Maybe it would be nice to mention if user used -hint -tput  with -b 1, the -b 1  will  be ignored.

Author: -b 1 is never ignored. it is just no-op if the model is already batch1. this logic in the benchamrk_app doesn't relate to the hints

> For the GPU, additionally the optimal batch size is selected and the [automatic batching](../OV_Runtime_UG/automatic_batching.md) is applied whenever possible (and also [when the device supports that](./supported_plugins/Device_Plugins.md#features-support-matrix)).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Internally, every device translates the value of the hint to the actual performance settings.
For example, the `ov::hint::PerformanceMode::THROUGHPUT` selects number of CPU or GPU streams.
For the GPU, additionally the optimal batch size is selected and the [automatic batching](../OV_Runtime_UG/automatic_batching.md) is applied whenever possible (and also [when the device supports that](./supported_plugins/Device_Plugins.md#features-support-matrix)).
```

> The resulting (device-specific) settings can be queried back from the instance of the `ov:compiled_model`.  
> Notice that the `benchmark_app`, outputs the actual settings, for example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The resulting device-specific settings can be queried back from the instance of the `ov:compiled_model`.  
Note that the `benchmark_app` outputs the actual settings, for example:
```

<code>
$benchmark_app -hint tput -d CPU -m 'path to your favorite model'

...

[Step 8/11] Setting optimal runtime parameters

[ INFO ] Device: CPU

[ INFO ]   { PERFORMANCE_HINT , THROUGHPUT }

...

[ INFO ]   { OPTIMAL_NUMBER_OF_INFER_REQUESTS , 4 }

[ INFO ]   { NUM_STREAMS , 4 }

...
</code> 

## Using the Performance Hints: Basic API
In the example code-snippet below the  `ov::hint::PerformanceMode::THROUGHPUT` is specified for the `ov::hint::performance_mode` property for the compile_model:
@sphinxdirective

.. tab:: C++

    .. doxygensnippet:: docs/snippets/ov_auto_batching.cpp
       :language: cpp
       :fragment: [compile_model]

.. tab:: Python

    .. doxygensnippet:: docs/snippets/ov_auto_batching.py
       :language: python
       :fragment: [compile_model]

@endsphinxdirective

## Additional (Optional) Hints from the App
Let's take an example  of an application that processes 4 video streams.  The most future-proof way to communicate the limitation of the parallel slack is to equip the performance hint with the optional `ov::hint::num_requests` configuration key set to 4. 

> As discussed previosly, for the GPU this will limit the batch size, for the CPU - the number of inference streams, so each device uses the `ov::hint::num_requests` while converting the hint to the actual device configuration options:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For the GPU this will limit the batch size, for the CPU - the number of inference streams, so each device uses the `ov::hint::num_requests` while converting the hint to the actual device configuration options:
```

@sphinxdirective

.. tab:: C++

    .. doxygensnippet:: docs/snippets/ov_auto_batching.cpp
       :language: cpp
       :fragment: [hint_num_requests]

.. tab:: Python

    .. doxygensnippet:: docs/snippets/ov_auto_batching.py
       :language: python
       :fragment: [hint_num_requests]

@endsphinxdirective

## Optimal Number of Inference Requests
Using the hints assumes that the application queries the `ov::optimal_number_of_infer_requests` to create and run the returned number of requests simultaneously:
@sphinxdirective

.. tab:: C++

    .. doxygensnippet:: docs/snippets/ov_auto_batching.cpp
       :language: cpp
       :fragment: [query_optimal_num_requests]

.. tab:: Python

    .. doxygensnippet:: docs/snippets/ov_auto_batching.py
       :language: python
       :fragment: [query_optimal_num_requests]

@endsphinxdirective

> While an application if free to create more requests if needed (for example to support asynchronous inputs population) **it is very important to at least run the `ov::optimal_number_of_infer_requests` of the inference requests in parallel**, for efficiency (device utilization) reasons. 

Reviewer 2: While an application "is" free to..?

> Also, notice that `ov::hint::PerformanceMode::LATENCY` does not necessarily imply using single inference request. For example, multi-socket CPUs can deliver as high number of requests (at the same minimal latency) as there are NUMA nodes the machine features.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Also, notice that `ov::hint::PerformanceMode::LATENCY` does not necessarily imply using a single inference request. For example, multi-socket CPUs can deliver a high number of requests (at the same minimal latency) as there are NUMA nodes the machine features.
```

> To make your application fully scalable, prefer to query the `ov::optimal_number_of_infer_requests` directly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To make your application fully scalable, query the `ov::optimal_number_of_infer_requests` directly.
```

## Prefer Async API
The API of the inference requests offers Sync and Async execution. While the `ov::InferRequest::infer()` is inherently synchronous and simple to operate (as it serializes the execution flow in the current application thread), the Async "splits" the `infer()` into `ov::InferRequest::start_async()` and use of the `ov::InferRequest::wait()` (or callbacks). Please consider the [API examples](../OV_Runtime_UG/ov_infer_request.md).
 Although the Synchronous API can be somewhat easier to start with, in the production code always prefer to use the Asynchronous (callbacks-based) API, as it is the most general and scalable way to implement the flow control for any possible number of requests (and hence both latency and throughput scenarios).
 
## Combining the Hints and Individual Low-Level Settings

> While sacrificing the portability at a some extent, it is possible to combine the hints with individual device-specific settings. 
> For example, you can let the device prepare a configuration `ov::hint::PerformanceMode::THROUGHPUT` while overriding any specific value:  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
While sacrificing portability to some extent, it is possible to combine the hints with individual device-specific settings. 
For example, you can let the device prepare a configuration `ov::hint::PerformanceMode::THROUGHPUT` while overriding any specific value:  
```

# High-level Performance Hints {#openvino_docs_OV_UG_Performance_Hints}

Each of the OpenVINO's [supported devices](supported_plugins/Supported_Devices.md) offers low-level performance settings. Tweaking this detailed configuration requires deep architecture understanding.

> Also, while the performance may be optimal for the specific combination of the device and the model that is inferred, the resulting configuration is not  necessarily optimal for another device or model.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Also, while the performance may be optimal for the specific combination of the device and the inferred model, the resulting configuration is not necessarily optimal for another device or model.
```

> The OpenVINO performance hints is the new way fo configuring the performance with the _portability_ in mind. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The OpenVINO performance hints are the new way to configure the performance with the _portability_ in mind. 
```

@sphinxdirective

.. tab:: C++

    .. doxygensnippet:: docs/snippets/ov_auto_batching.cpp
       :language: cpp
       :fragment: [compile_model]

.. tab:: Python

    .. doxygensnippet:: docs/snippets/ov_auto_batching.py
       :language: python
       :fragment: [compile_model]

@endsphinxdirective

Seeing the results:

## Optimal Number of Inference Requests
Using the hints assumes that the application queries the `ov::optimal_number_of_infer_requests` to create and run the returned number of requests simultaneously:
@sphinxdirective

.. tab:: C++

    .. doxygensnippet:: docs/snippets/ov_auto_batching.cpp
       :language: cpp
       :fragment: [query_optimal_num_requests]

.. tab:: Python

    .. doxygensnippet:: docs/snippets/ov_auto_batching.py
       :language: python
       :fragment: [query_optimal_num_requests]

@endsphinxdirective

## (Optional) Additional Hints from the App
Let's take an example  of an application that processes 4 video streams.  The most future-proof way to communicate the limitation of the parallel slack is to equip the performance hint with the optional `ov::hint::num_requests` configuration key set to 4. 

> As discussed previosly, for the GPU this will limit the batch size, for the CPU - the number of inference streams, so each device uses the `ov::hint::num_requests` while converting the hint to the actual device configuration options:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For the GPU this will limit the batch size, for the CPU - the number of inference streams, so each device uses the `ov::hint::num_requests` while converting the hint to the actual device configuration options:
```

@sphinxdirective

.. tab:: C++

    .. doxygensnippet:: docs/snippets/ov_auto_batching.cpp
       :language: cpp
       :fragment: [hint_num_requests]

.. tab:: Python

    .. doxygensnippet:: docs/snippets/ov_auto_batching.py
       :language: python
       :fragment: hint_num_requests]

@endsphinxdirective

Seeing the results:

## Combining the Hints and Individual Low-Level Settings

## Testing the Performance of THe Hints with the Benchmark_App

> The `benchmark_app`, that exists in both  [C++](../../samples/cpp/benchmark_app/README.md) and [Python](../../tools/benchmark_tool/README.md) versions, is the best way to evaluate the performance of the performaqnce hints for a particular device:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `benchmark_app`, that exists in both  [C++](../../samples/cpp/benchmark_app/README.md) and [Python](../../tools/benchmark_tool/README.md) versions, is the best way to evaluate the performance of the performance hints for a particular device:
```

 - benchmark_app **-hint tput** -d 'device' -m 'path to your favorite model'
 - benchmark_app **-hint latency** -d 'device' -m 'path to your favorite model'

> -  Disabling the hints to emulate the pre-hints era (highly recommended before playing the individual low-level settings like number of streams, threads, etc):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-  Disabling the hints to emulate the pre-hints era (highly recommended before trying the individual low-level settings, such as the number of streams, threads, etc):
```

>  - benchmark_app **-hint tput** -d 'device' -m 'path to your favorite model'
>  - benchmark_app **-hint latency** -d 'device' -m 'path to your favorite model'
> -  Disabling the hints to emulate the pre-hints era (highly recommended before playing the individual low-level settings like number of streams, threads, etc):
> - - benchmark_app **-hint none -nstreams 1**  -d 'device' -m 'path to your favorite model'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - benchmark_app **-hint tput** -d 'device' -m 'path to your model'
 - benchmark_app **-hint latency** -d 'device' -m 'path to your model'
-  Disabling the hints to emulate the pre-hints era (highly recommended before playing the individual low-level settings like number of streams, threads, etc):
- - benchmark_app **-hint none -nstreams 1**  -d 'device' -m 'path to your model'
```
